---
layout: post
title:  "Survey of Novel View Synthesis"
date:   2022-11-16 03:18:31 +0900
category: Blog
tags: [Deep Learning, Computer Vision, NERF, Survey]
---

{% if page.tags.size > 0 %}
  Tags: {{ page.tags | sort | join: ", " }}
{% endif %}

<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>


## 1. What is novel view synthesis?
When an image is taken, a camera is at a certain pose (orientation and angle in the world coordinate system). Novel view synthesis is the domain of generating an image with an arbitrary target pose based on the provided source images and their respective camera poses[1]. 

## 2. Introduction to Neral Radiance Fields (NeRF)
In 2020, a novel method called NeRF has been proposed to represent scenes as neural radiance fields for novel view synthesis[2]. The method is similar to COIN[3] as it trains multi-layer perceptrons, $$\Theta$$, to learn the optimal function to map spatial location to the rendering information. More specifically, the input is a 5D coordinate of spatial location (x,y,z) and viewing direction($$ \theta, \phi $$). And the output is the emitted radiance (R,G,B) and the volume density($$\sigma$$) at the given spatial location[2]. 

Views are generated in the following process[5]: 
1. Conducting ray tracing for each pixel to generate a sample set of 3D points. 
2. Using those generated points and the 2D viewing direction as 5D inputs to the neural network to produce a 4D output of colors and density. 
3. Use classical volume rendering techniques to accumulate the output to synthesize a 2D image. 

Since volume rendering is differentiable, the model is able to optimize with gradient descent based on the differences between the observed image and the corresponding views generated by the model. In this process of training across multiple views, the neural networks learn to coherently assign accurate volume densities to each spatial point and colors render realistic novel views. 

## 3. Methods for NeRF Optimization
### 3-1. Multiview Consistent Representation
The model also encourages the representation to be consistent across different views by limiting the network to predict the volume density $$\sigma$$ with only the 3D spatial location coordinates (x, y, z). While the color c is predicted with both the 3D spatial location (x, y, z) and the 2D viewing directions ($$ \theta, \phi $$). This is implemented by first processing 3D spatial location coordinates (x, y, z) with 8 fully-connected layers, with the ReLU activation function and 256 channels per layer. And with the 256-dimensional feature vector output $$\sigma$$, the camera ray's viewing direction ($$\theta, \phi$$) is concatenated and then passed to another fully connected layer with 128 channels to output the color c. 

However, the basic implementation was insufficient to generate high-resolution representations. And the following methods were further employed to address the problem:
1. Transform input coordinates with a positional encoding to a higher dimensional space. 
2. Hierarchical sampling procedure to reduce the number of queries required to adequately sample representations. (allocate the MLP’s capacity towards space with visible scene content)

### 3-2. Positional Encoding
Deep networks are biased to learn lower-frequency functions[6]. Thus the mapping function $$F_{\Theta}$$ is modified as a composition of two functions $$F_{\Theta} = {F'}_{\Theta} \cdot \gamma $$. The former is learned and the latter is not. $$\gamma$$ acts as a mapping function to transform the spatial location from $$\mathbb{R}$$ to a higher-dimension latent space $$\mathbb{R}^{2L}$$. $$\gamma$$ is applied to each components of the three coordinates values in x and to the components of the Cartesian viewing direction unit vector $$ d $$, where $$ L = 10$$ for x and $$ L = 4 $$ for d. Mapping the input coordinates to a higher-dimension allows the model to more easily approximate a higher frequency function.

### 3-3. Hierarchical Volume Sampling
Another method is proposed to increase rendering efficiency by allocating samples proportionally to their expected effect on the final rendering. Without this method, free space and occluded regions that are not part of the final image are sampled repeatedly when each camera ray is evaluated. Two networks are optimized: "coarse" and "fine". At a high level, coarse functions sample a set of locations $$N_{c}$$ which encodes more information on each sample regarding their relevance which is then passed to the "fine" network. This procedure allocates more samples to regions we expect to contain visible content[5].

## 4. Neural volume rendering
The optimization of the model is possible since volume rendering is differentiable. Volume density $$\sigma$$ can be thought of as the differential probability of a ray terminating at the given spatial location (x, y, z). At a high-level, the color C can be computed as an integral of T() and r() on the bounds of $$t_{n}$$ and $$t_{f}$$ where T() is the accumulated transmittance of the ray and r() is the camera ray. 

## 5. Characteristics of NeRF
## 5-1. Strengths
NeRF outperformed other state-of-the-art view synthesis methods at the time, and was first to present continuous neural scene representation that can render photorealistic novel views of real objects and scenes from RGB images captured in natural settings[5].

## 5-2. Weaknesses
- Many models are often overfit to represent one scene as accurately as possible, which hinders generalizability. 
- Optimizes the representation to every scene independently, requiring many calibrated views and significant compute time[11].
- NeRF is slow as it performs the following for every pixel (Hierarchical Volume Sampling)[4]:
1. a uniform  sampling  step  is  required  to  find  the  densest  area
2. another  to  extract  a dense  sampling  area  for  volume  rendering

## 6. Related Prior Works
### 6-1. Occupancy and Signed Distance Functions
With Signed Distance Function (SDF), a distance of point X from the boundary of a surface can be found. This function can be useful to determine if a point lies inside the boundary of the surface or outside the boundary[8].

There were several papers proposed in 2019 from CVPR and ICCV using Signed Distance Functions to predict occupancy[7]
1. **Occupancy networks (Mescheder et al., 2019)**  
Proposed implicit, coordinate-based learning of occupancy. The network consists of 5 ResNet blocks which take a feature vector and a 3D point. It predicts binary occupancy.
2. **DeepSDF (Park et al., 2019)**  
Proposes to directly regress a signed distance function from a 3D coordinate. The model uses an 8-layer MPL with skip-connections to layer 4.
3. **PIFu (Saito et al., 2019)**  
Demonstrates that it is possible to learn highly detailed implicit models by re-projecting 3D points into a pixel-aligned feature representation.


### 6-2. Implicit Functions
Implicit surface representation is a method that defines the surface implicitly by a function[10]. The functions are not solved for variables x, y, z and whether a certain point is inside or on the surface can be found with the sign of the result of the implicit function $$f(x, y, z)$$[9]. 

Several papers have been proposed building on this domain
1. **Structured Implicit Functions (Genova et al., 2019)**  
Demonstrates that combining implicit representations is equivalent to summing them.
2. **Neural Articulated Shape Approximation (Deng et al., 2020c)**  
NASA utilizes implicit functions to represent articulated objects such as human bodies.


## 7. NeRF-inspired models
### 7-1. Notable
**“Pixel-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from One or Few Images”**  
proposes a learning framework that predicts a continuous neural scene representation based on one or few input images[11].  It introduces an architecture that trains a NeRF on image inputs in a fully convolutional manner. This allows the network to be trained across multiple scenes to learn a scene prior, enabling it to perform novel view synthesis in a feed-forward manner from a sparse set of views[11].


### 7-2. Performance Improvements
**“MobileNeRF: Exploiting the Polygon Rasterization Pipeline for Efficient Neural Field Rendering on Mobile Architectures”**  
proposes a novel method that can run on common devices in real time. The paper introduces a new NeRF representation with textured polygons that can generate novel images efficiently with conventional rendering methods[12]. 


### 7-3. Applications
**“3DMM-RF: Convolutional Radiance Fields for 3D Face Modeling”**  
proposes a 3D morphable model that can accurately model a subject’s identity, pose and expression and render it in arbitrary illumination. It leverages a generative network that generates the radiance field of multiple samples based on certain inputs including identity, pose, and illumination[4]. 

## 8. Future directions
As seen above, there have been several works that improved the inference speed, generalizability of neural radiance fields and utilized it for other applications. NeRF has been easily trainable with volume rendering being differentiable[7], and it can be utilized in many other computer vision tasks which can see performance boosts with 3d reconstruction of the scene from 2d images. Also increasing speed and generalizability remains as important problems to be solved even further. 

## References
[1] https://paperswithcode.com/task/novel-view-synthesis  
[2] https://www.matthewtancik.com/nerf  
[3] https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.03123  
[4] https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.07366  
[5] https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.08934  
[6] Rahaman et el. On the spectral bias of neural networks  
[7] https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05204  
[8] https://not-another-engineer.medium.com/what-is-signed-distance-function-818101f6fe3e  
[9] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Implicit_surface  
[10] https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring14/cos426/lectures/09-implicit.pdf  
[11] https://alexyu.net/pixelnerf/  
[12] https://mobile-nerf.github.io/  
